# 42-minishell

## 0. Excerpt from subject :

Program name minishell
Turn in files Makefile, *.h, *.c
Makefile NAME, all, clean, fclean, re
Arguments
External functs. readline, rl_clear_history, rl_on_new_line,
rl_replace_line, rl_redisplay, add_history,
printf, malloc, free, write, access, open, read,
close, fork, wait, waitpid, wait3, wait4, signal,
sigaction, sigemptyset, sigaddset, kill, exit,
getcwd, chdir, stat, lstat, fstat, unlink, execve,
dup, dup2, pipe, opendir, readdir, closedir,
strerror, perror, isatty, ttyname, ttyslot, ioctl,
getenv, tcsetattr, tcgetattr, tgetent, tgetflag,
tgetnum, tgetstr, tgoto, tputs
Libft authorized Yes
Description Write a shell

- Display a prompt when waiting for a new command.
- Have a working history.
- Search and launch the right executable (based on the PATH variable or using a relative or an absolute path).
- Avoid using more than one global variable to indicate a received signal. Consider the implications: this approach ensures that your signal handler will not access your main data structures.
Not interpret unclosed quotes or special characters which are not required by the
subject such as \ (backslash) or ; (semicolon).
• Handle ’ (single quote) which should prevent the shell from interpreting the metacharacters in the quoted sequence.
• Handle " (double quote) which should prevent the shell from interpreting the metacharacters in the quoted sequence except for $ (dollar sign).
• Implement redirections:
◦ < should redirect input.
◦ > should redirect output.
◦ << should be given a delimiter, then read the input until a line containing the
delimiter is seen. However, it doesn’t have to update the history!
◦ >> should redirect output in append mode.
• Implement pipes (| character). The output of each command in the pipeline is
connected to the input of the next command via a pipe.
• Handle environment variables ($ followed by a sequence of characters) which
should expand to their values.
• Handle $? which should expand to the exit status of the most recently executed
foreground pipeline.
• Handle ctrl-C, ctrl-D and ctrl-\ which should behave like in bash.
• In interactive mode:
◦ ctrl-C displays a new prompt on a new line.
◦ ctrl-D exits the shell.
◦ ctrl-\ does nothing.
• Your shell must implement the following builtins:
◦ echo with option -n
◦ cd with only a relative or absolute path
◦ pwd with no options
◦ export with no options
◦ unset with no options
◦ env with no options or arguments
◦ exit with no options
The readline() function can cause memory leaks. You don’t have to fix them. But
that doesn’t mean your own code, yes the code you wrote, can have memory
leaks.

Bonus ? • && and || with parenthesis for priorities.

## 1. Lexer :

The lexer processes the input command line, converting it into a sequence of tokens. Each token represents a meaningful element, such as a command, argument, operator, or delimiter.

Error handling :
witong@made-f0Br3s9:~$ echo hello |<
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `newline'
witong@made-f0Br3s9:~$ echo hello <|
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `|'
witong@made-f0Br3s9:~$ >
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `newline'
witong@made-f0Br3s9:~$ > file
witong@made-f0Br3s9:~$ ^C

Ctrl + d = racourcis pour renvoyer un flux de donnee, elle peut etre arreter par EOF.

## 2. Parser :

The parser takes the list of tokens generated by the lexer and organizes them into a structured format, typically an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST). This structure represents the hierarchical relationship between commands and their components.

Input -lexer-> tokens
tokens -parser-> AST
AST -evaluator-> evaluated AST
evaluated AST -executor-> output

https://m4nnb3ll.medium.com/minishell-building-a-mini-bash-a-42-project-b55a10598218
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar


